docs/src/site/sphinx/plain-java-object/operations-builtin.rst, before:

..  plain-java-object/operations-builtin.rst


Operations on Built-in Types
############################

The pursuit of the plain Java objects idea requires a extensive change
to the preceding VSJ 2 (project ``rt2``) implementation,
although structurally VSJ 3 (project ``rt3``) will have much in common with it.

    Code fragments in this section are taken from
    ``rt3/src/main/java/.../vsj3/evo1``
    and corresponding test and other directories
    in the project source.

Direction of Travel
*******************

We will tackle first the question of how we find the ``MethodHandle``\s
that an interpreter would invoke or a ``CallSite`` bind as its target,
that is, we begin with a typical special method "slot".

In VSJ2 we shifted from seeing these slots as fundamental to Python,
as they seem at first in the source code CPython,
to regarding the data model as fundamental,
with its special methods exposed
through descriptors in the dictionary of the type.
We now see the type slots as a cache of that information,
attuned to the needs of a CPython interpreter.

In order to to get started on the "plain objects" idea,
we will begin with type construction using the exposure apparatus.
This involves copying and adapting a good portion of VSJ2
(taken at the ``evo4`` stage).
For the time being,
we defer actual interpretation of code in favour of unit tests
of the abstract object and other conjectured API.

VSJ2 also made a brief and inadequate pass over the question of building
call sites based on these cached values.
It was inadequate because it equated Java class to Python type
when generating guards, which we must now put right.

We'll do this first with a few familiar types,
and attempt to explain how we may define and access
a rich set of operations in the plain objects paradigm.



``PyType`` and ``Operations`` for ``float``
*******************************************

A Unary Operation ``float.__neg__``
===================================

In VSJ 2 we created the means to build a ``PyType``
for classes crafted to represent Python objects.
An example is ``PyFloat``,
representing the type ``float`` and its instances.
There the ``PyType`` provided a ``MethodHandle`` to each method of ``float``,
including the special methods (such as ``__neg__``)
for which it also acted as a cache.

Suppose we want to do the same again,
but now also to allow instances of ``java.lang.Double``
to represent instances of ``float``.
For each method, including the special methods,
we shall have to provide an implementation applicable to ``PyFloat``,
as before,
and also one applicable to ``Double``.

In fact, since the range and precision of ``Double``
are the same as those of ``PyFloat``,
we could manage without ``PyFloat`` entirely,
were it not that we need to define sub-classes of ``float`` in Python.
Sub-classes in Python must be represented by sub-classes in Java
(with a few exceptions)
and ``Double`` cannot be sub-classed.


Descriptive Structures
----------------------

Let's just address unary negative to begin with.
Suppose that in the course of executing a ``UNARY_NEGATIVE`` opcode,
the interpreter picks up an ``Object`` from the stack
and finds it to be a ``Double``.
How does it locate the particular implementation of ``__neg__``?

The structure we propose looks like this,
when realised for two integer values:

..  uml::
    :caption: Instance model of ``float`` and its operations

    object "1e42 : PyFloat" as x
    object "PyFloat : Class" as PyFloat.class

    object " : MethodHandle" as xneg {
        target = PyFloatMethods.__neg__(PyFloat)
    }

    object "float : PyType" as floatType

    x --> PyFloat.class
    PyFloat.class --> floatType : ops
    floatType --> floatType
    floatType --> xneg : op_neg

    object "42.0 : Double" as y
    object "Double : Class" as Double.class
    object " : Operations" as yOps

    object " : MethodHandle" as yneg {
        target = PyFloatMethods.__neg__(Double)
    }

    y --> Double.class
    Double.class --> yOps : ops
    yOps -left-> floatType : type
    yOps --> yneg : op_neg

    object " : Map" as dict
    object " : PyWrapperDescr" as neg {
        name = "__neg__"
    }

    floatType --> dict : dict
    dict --> neg
    neg --> xneg
    neg --> yneg


We separate the responsibilities of ``PyType``,
where they have to adapt to the specific Java implementation,
into:

* an ``Operations`` object specialised to one Java implementation class, and
* the ``PyType`` containing the information common to all implementations.

A ``PyType`` is a particular kind of ``Operations`` object,
describing the *canonical implementation* (``PyFloat`` in this case).
The ``Operations`` object for an alternative *accepted implementation*,
is not a ``PyType``.

There can only be one descriptor for ``float.__neg__``.
How does it describe the several implementations?
Clearly the descriptor must reference all the implementations of its method,
and during execution we must choose one that matches the class of object.

As before, we shall have a caching scheme,
in which a slot on each ``Operations`` object (including ``PyType``),
holds the handle for its particular Java class.
In the present case, that cache will be the ``op_neg`` slot.


Method Implementations
----------------------

Methods defined in Java are exposed as Python methods
thanks to the class ``Exposer``.
At the time of writing,
the design provides for multiple styles of definition
of the special methods:
instance methods or static methods in the canonical class,
and static methods in an auxiliary class.
This last option is the one we use for types like ``float``.

The operations on ``Double`` have to be ``static`` methods, since
we can't very well open up ``java.lang.Double`` and add them there!
Therefore we create new class in which ``static`` methods
define the operations for *all* accepted implementations.

The canonical implementation class will specify, during initialisation,
the Java classes that are the accepted implementations,
and the name of this extra class defining the methods.
The canonical class now begins something like this:

..  code-block:: java

    public class PyFloat extends AbstractPyObject {

        static final PyType TYPE = PyType.fromSpec( //
                new PyType.Spec("float", MethodHandles.lookup())
                        .accept(Double.class)
                        .methods(PyFloatMethods.class));

        static Double ZERO = Double.valueOf(0.0);

It suits us to define ``__new__`` in ``PyFloat``,
but the class containing (most of) the methods is ``PyFloatMethods``.
It is generated by a script, and begins like this:

..  code-block:: java

    class PyFloatMethods {
        // ...
        static Object __neg__(Double self) {
            return -self.doubleValue();
        }

        static Object __neg__(PyFloat self) {
            return -self.value;
        }

Constructing a Unary ``CallSite``
---------------------------------

Recall that the purpose of these acrobatics is
to create an efficient call site.
We now sketch how we may do so in the unary case.
A lot of supporting code has been elided:

..  code-block:: java

    public class PyRT {
        // ...
        static class UnaryOpCallSite extends MutableCallSite {
            // ...
            private final Slot op;

            public UnaryOpCallSite(Slot op)
                    throws NoSuchMethodException, IllegalAccessException {
                super(UOP);
                this.op = op;
                setTarget(fallbackMH.bindTo(this));
            }

            @SuppressWarnings("unused")
            private Object fallback(Object v) throws Throwable {
                Operations vOps = Operations.of(v);
                MethodHandle resultMH, targetMH;
                if (op.isDefinedFor(vOps)) {
                    resultMH = op.getSlot(vOps);
                } else {
                    resultMH = OPERAND_ERROR.bindTo(op);
                }
                // MH for guarded invocation (becomes new target)
                MethodHandle guardMH = CLASS_GUARD.bindTo(v.getClass());
                targetMH = guardWithTest(guardMH, resultMH, getTarget());
                setTarget(targetMH);
                // Compute the result for this case
                return resultMH.invokeExact(v);
            }
            // ...
        }


The interesting part is the method ``fallback``.
This has the same signature as the site,
once bound to the call site as the target instance,
and is the first installed target of the site.

``fallback`` will compute the result of the call for a particular argument,
which it does by getting the method handle cached in the ``Operations``
for the class of the argument.
Before it invokes that handle,
it makes it the target of the call site,
guarded by a test for the particular argument's class,
with the existing handle (``fallback``) as the alternative.
In this way, the site is able to make the same invocation call efficiently,
next time the same Java class is encountered.

As the site is invoked for different Java classes,
not need not be just the accepted implementations of a single type,
it will build a chain of guarded invocations,
equivalent to a chain of ``if (v instanceof C) { ... } else ...`` clauses
each guarding the proper implementation of the unary operation.

The chain could grow long,
although it will only contain the types actually encountered
in a particular location.
It is also a structure the JVM is able to inspect and optimise.

We do not have a compiler yet to generate code using ``invokedynamic``
in order to exercise this properly.
However, we can invoke it as a test like this:

..  code-block:: java

    class FloatCallSites {

        /** Test invocation of __neg__ call site on accepted classes. */
        @Test
        void site_op_neg() throws Throwable {

            Object dx = Double.valueOf(42.0);
            Object px = new PyFloat(42.0);

            UnaryOpCallSite cs = new UnaryOpCallSite(Slot.op_neg);
            MethodHandle invoker = cs.dynamicInvoker();

            // Link and invoke for PyFloat, Double
            for (Object x : List.of(px, dx)) {
                final Object res = invoker.invokeExact(x);
                assertEquals(-42.0, PyFloat.asDouble(res));
            }
        }
    }

This works for unary operations on ``float``.
Whether this is correct yet for all styles of object implementation
remains to be seen.


An Implication for Bootstrapping
--------------------------------

Note that if a Java class were to be encountered by the run-time
before its canonical counterpart could register it,
it would be treated as a "found" Java class,
and this would prevent it becoming an accepted implementation as intended.
Types with accepted implementations must initialise before this can happen,
and so we make them bootstrap types.
A list read from configuration is imaginable
as an alternative to hard-coding,
but it would have to be acted on early in the life of the type system.


A Binary Operation ``float.__sub__``
====================================

To be added.



``PyType`` and ``Operations`` for ``int`` and ``bool``
******************************************************

Let us repeat the exercise for ``int`` and ``bool``,
as there are some complications worth examining.
These complications result because, in Python,
``bool`` is a sub-class of ``int``,
and because we would like to identify Python ``True`` and ``False``
with Java ``Boolean.TRUE`` and ``Boolean.FALSE``.


The Unary Operation ``int.__neg__``
===================================

``PyLong`` is the canonical implementation of ``int``.
We also allow instances of ``Integer`` and ``BigInteger``
to represent instances of ``int``.
For each method, including the special methods,
we shall have to provide implementations applicable to
``Integer``, ``BigInteger`` and ``PyLong``.

For __neg__ we should expect to see:

..  code-block:: java

    class PyLongMethods {
        // ...
        static Object __neg__(Integer self) {
            return -self.intValue();
        }

        static Object __neg__(BigInteger self) {
            return self.negate();
        }

        static Object __neg__(PyLong self) {
            return self.value.negate();
        }

However, there is a complication surrounding ``bool``.
These are reasonable (and the same thing) in Python:

..  code-block:: python

    >>> -True
    -1
    >>> int.__neg__(True)
    -1

``True`` is acceptable as an argument to ``int.__neg__`` in Python
because ``bool`` is a sub-class of ``int``.
Java ``Boolean`` is not a sub-class of any acceptable implementation,
and so no signature of ``__neg__`` is applicable to it.


Accepting ``bool``
------------------

The structure we propose to deal with this is as follows,
when realised for two kinds of integer `1` and boolean ``True``.
Although this involves a lot of objects,
it is very regular in structure.


..  uml::
    :caption: Instance model of ``int`` and ``bool`` finding ``op_neg``

    object "1 : PyLong" as x
    object "PyLong : Class" as PyLong.class

    object " : MethodHandle" as xneg {
        target = PyLongMethods.__neg__(PyLong)
    }

    object "int : PyType" as intType {
    }
    object " : Map" as intDict
    intType --> intDict : dict

    x --> PyLong.class
    PyLong.class --> intType : ops
    intType --> xneg : op_neg

    object "1 : Integer" as y
    object "Integer : Class" as Integer.class
    object " : Operations" as yOps

    object " : MethodHandle" as yneg {
        target = PyLongMethods.__neg__(Integer)
    }

    y --> Integer.class
    Integer.class --> yOps : ops
    yOps -right-> intType : type
    yOps --> yneg : op_neg

    object "bool : PyType" as boolType
    object " : Map" as boolDict
    boolType --> boolDict : dict

    object "True : Boolean" as z
    object "Boolean : Class" as Boolean.class
    object " : Operations" as zOps

    object " : MethodHandle" as zneg {
        target = PyLongMethods.__neg__(Boolean)
    }

    z --> Boolean.class
    Boolean.class --> zOps : ops
    zOps -left-> boolType : type
    zOps ---> zneg : op_neg

    object " : PyWrapperDescr" as neg {
        name = "__neg__"
    }

    intDict --> neg
    neg --> xneg
    neg --> yneg
    neg --> zneg
    intType <.left. boolType : <<Python sub-class>>
    boolType ...> neg : lookup("__neg__")


The point to note is that the same ``PyWrapperDescr`` object
is found by look-up on both ``int`` and ``bool``:
on ``int`` because it is defined there,
and on ``bool`` by inheritance along the MRO
Each Operations object caches the correct handle for its Java class,
because the defining type object indicates
which handle within the ``PyWrapperDescr`` to take.


The definition of ``PyLong`` looks like this:

..  code-block:: java

    class PyLong {


The definition of ``PyBool`` looks like this:

..  code-block:: java

    class PyBool {







Some Dots on the RADAR
======================

Here is a list of design problems looming already.
Some of these were already apparent for VSJ 2 at ``evo4``,
but since we can see them now,
we may design VSJ 3 with them in mind.

*   The type of attribute names were strongly typed to ``PyUnicode``
    in the VSJ 2 API to ``__getattribute__``, ``__setattr__``, etc.,
    obviating checks in the code.
    If we allow (prefer, even) ``String`` as ``str``,
    we still need ``PyUnicode`` as the canonical type
    (for above BMP strings and Python sub-classes of ``str``).
    So attribute access must now accept ``Object`` (at some level).
    We'd like this to be efficient in call sites
    where a Java ``String`` (UTF-16) may be guaranteed.
    Possibly make this the slot signature.
*   The keys of dictionaries must compare using ``__eq__`` and ``__hash__``
    even when the key is a plain Java object.
    We may not directly use a Java ``Map`` implementation
    directly as the Python implementation,
    except we wrap it in an object defining comparison and hashing.
    (This problem may be latent in VSJ 2.)
    We may avoid this for type dictionaries
    exploiting the string nature of attributes.
*   For types defined in Python,
    the Java class does not define the type,
    so the ``Operations`` slots will indirect
    via a type written on the instance,
    either to another ``Operations`` object specific to the type,
    or directly to the descriptor.
*   Descriptors that appear in the dictionary of the type
    must somehow be applicable to all implementations of that type,
    and therefore contain multiple handles,
    indexed by the implementation (by ``Operations``).
    In ``int.__neg__(42)`` we must invoke index 1.
    Descriptors are inherited by Python sub-classes to which these
    accepted implementations are largely irrelevant,
    since a sub-class Java extends only the canonical implementation.
*   When a type implemented in Java,
    and possessing accepted alternative implementations,
    inherits a ``PyWrapperDescr``,
    the method handle array ``wrapped`` in the inherited descriptor
    has entries that match the implementation types of the inherited class,
    and these may not match the accepted implementations of the receiver.
    How may the inherited special method be applied
    to a sub-class instance that of accepted class?
    This happens all the time for the special case of ``object``,
    where all implementations trivially extend ``Object``.
    Other examples are rare.
    If ``Boolean`` is an acceptable implementation of ``bool``,
    inherited ``int`` operations must be applicable to it.
    Should we conclude that each accep[table implementations of a sub-class
    must be a subclass of some implementation of it Python super-type?

Commit message:

Experiments with class-specific binary operations
We try the idea of supplying and calling specific method signatures like
__add__(Double, PyFloat) as a way to make efficient call sites. Here is
an infrastructure intended to be general-purpose, but which so far only
works for limited examples of float.

In the course of this, we also clarify what we should mean by adopted,
accepted and operand Java classes, in relation to implementations, and
put in he infrastructure to support the concept. We can't test this
until we have more than one type.

docs/src/site/sphinx/plain-java-object/operations-builtin.rst, after:

..  plain-java-object/operations-builtin.rst


Operations on Built-in Types
############################

The pursuit of the plain Java objects idea requires a extensive change
to the preceding VSJ 2 (project ``rt2``) implementation,
although structurally VSJ 3 (project ``rt3``) will have much in common with it.

    Code fragments in this section are taken from
    ``rt3/src/main/java/.../vsj3/evo1``
    and corresponding test and other directories
    in the project source.

Direction of Travel
*******************

We will tackle first the question of how we find the ``MethodHandle``\s
that an interpreter would invoke or a ``CallSite`` bind as its target,
that is, we begin with a typical special method "slot".

In VSJ2 we shifted from seeing these slots as fundamental to Python,
as they seem at first in the source code CPython,
to regarding the data model as fundamental,
with its special methods exposed
through descriptors in the dictionary of the type.
We now see the type slots as a cache of that information,
attuned to the needs of a CPython interpreter.

In order to to get started on the "plain objects" idea,
we will begin with type construction using the exposure apparatus.
This involves copying and adapting a good portion of VSJ2
(taken at the ``evo4`` stage).
For the time being,
we defer actual interpretation of code in favour of unit tests
of the abstract object and other conjectured API.

VSJ2 also made a brief and inadequate pass over the question of building
call sites based on these cached values.
It was inadequate because it equated Java class to Python type
when generating guards, which we must now put right.

We'll do this first with a few familiar types,
and attempt to explain how we may define and access
a rich set of operations in the plain objects paradigm.



``PyType`` and ``Operations`` for ``float``
*******************************************

A Unary Operation ``float.__neg__``
===================================

In VSJ 2 we created the means to build a ``PyType``
for classes crafted to represent Python objects.
An example is ``PyFloat``,
representing the type ``float`` and its instances.
There the ``PyType`` provided a ``MethodHandle`` to each method of ``float``,
including the special methods (such as ``__neg__``)
for which it also acted as a cache.

Suppose we want to do the same again,
but now also to allow instances of ``java.lang.Double``
to represent instances of ``float``.
For each method, including the special methods,
we shall have to provide an implementation applicable to ``PyFloat``,
as before,
and also one applicable to ``Double``.

In fact, since the range and precision of ``Double``
are the same as those of ``PyFloat``,
we could manage without ``PyFloat`` entirely,
were it not that we need to define sub-classes of ``float`` in Python.
Sub-classes in Python must be represented by sub-classes in Java
(with a few exceptions)
and ``Double`` cannot be sub-classed.


Descriptive Structures
----------------------

Let's just address unary negative to begin with.
Suppose that in the course of executing a ``UNARY_NEGATIVE`` opcode,
the interpreter picks up an ``Object`` from the stack
and finds it to be a ``Double``.
How does it locate the particular implementation of ``__neg__``?

The structure we propose looks like this,
when realised for two integer values:

..  uml::
    :caption: Instance model of ``float`` and its operations

    object "1e42 : PyFloat" as x
    object "PyFloat : Class" as PyFloat.class

    object " : MethodHandle" as xneg {
        target = PyFloatMethods.__neg__(PyFloat)
    }

    object "float : PyType" as floatType

    x --> PyFloat.class
    PyFloat.class --> floatType : ops
    floatType --> floatType
    floatType --> xneg : op_neg

    object "42.0 : Double" as y
    object "Double : Class" as Double.class
    object " : Operations" as yOps

    object " : MethodHandle" as yneg {
        target = PyFloatMethods.__neg__(Double)
    }

    y --> Double.class
    Double.class --> yOps : ops
    yOps -left-> floatType : type
    yOps --> yneg : op_neg

    object " : Map" as dict
    object " : PyWrapperDescr" as neg {
        name = "__neg__"
    }

    floatType --> dict : dict
    dict --> neg
    neg --> xneg
    neg --> yneg


We separate the responsibilities of ``PyType``,
where they have to adapt to the specific Java implementation,
into:

* an ``Operations`` object specialised to one Java implementation class, and
* the ``PyType`` containing the information common to all implementations.

A ``PyType`` is a particular kind of ``Operations`` object,
describing the *canonical implementation* (``PyFloat`` in this case).
The ``Operations`` object for an alternative *adopted implementation*,
is not a ``PyType``.

There can only be one descriptor for ``float.__neg__``.
How does it describe the several implementations?
Clearly the descriptor must reference all the implementations of its method,
and during execution we must choose one that matches the class of object.

As before, we shall have a caching scheme,
in which a slot on each ``Operations`` object (including ``PyType``),
holds the handle for its particular Java class.
In the present case, that cache will be the ``op_neg`` slot.


Method Implementations
----------------------

Methods defined in Java are exposed as Python methods
thanks to the class ``Exposer``.
At the time of writing,
the design provides for multiple styles of definition
of the special methods:
instance methods or static methods in the canonical class,
and static methods in an auxiliary class.
This last option is the one we use for types like ``float``.

The operations on ``Double`` have to be ``static`` methods, since
we can't very well open up ``java.lang.Double`` and add them there!
Therefore we create new class in which ``static`` methods
define the operations for *all* adopted implementations.

The canonical implementation class will specify, during initialisation,
the Java classes that are the adopted implementations,
and the name of this extra class defining the methods.
The canonical class now begins something like this:

..  code-block:: java

    public class PyFloat extends AbstractPyObject {

        static final PyType TYPE = PyType.fromSpec( //
                new PyType.Spec("float", MethodHandles.lookup())
                        .adopt(Double.class)
                        .methods(PyFloatMethods.class));

        static Double ZERO = Double.valueOf(0.0);

It suits us to define ``__new__`` in ``PyFloat``,
but the class containing (most of) the methods is ``PyFloatMethods``.
It is generated by a script, and begins like this:

..  code-block:: java

    class PyFloatMethods {
        // ...
        static Object __neg__(Double self) {
            return -self.doubleValue();
        }

        static Object __neg__(PyFloat self) {
            return -self.value;
        }

Constructing a Unary ``CallSite``
---------------------------------

Recall that the purpose of these acrobatics is
to create an efficient call site.
We now sketch how we may do so in the unary case.
A lot of supporting code has been elided:

..  code-block:: java

    public class PyRT {
        // ...
        static class UnaryOpCallSite extends MutableCallSite {
            // ...
            private final Slot op;

            public UnaryOpCallSite(Slot op)
                    throws NoSuchMethodException, IllegalAccessException {
                super(UOP);
                this.op = op;
                setTarget(fallbackMH.bindTo(this));
            }

            @SuppressWarnings("unused")
            private Object fallback(Object v) throws Throwable {
                Operations vOps = Operations.of(v);
                MethodHandle resultMH, targetMH;
                if (op.isDefinedFor(vOps)) {
                    resultMH = op.getSlot(vOps);
                } else {
                    resultMH = OPERAND_ERROR.bindTo(op);
                }
                // MH for guarded invocation (becomes new target)
                MethodHandle guardMH = CLASS_GUARD.bindTo(v.getClass());
                targetMH = guardWithTest(guardMH, resultMH, getTarget());
                setTarget(targetMH);
                // Compute the result for this case
                return resultMH.invokeExact(v);
            }
            // ...
        }


The interesting part is the method ``fallback``.
This has the same signature as the site,
once bound to the call site as the target instance,
and is the first installed target of the site.

``fallback`` will compute the result of the call for a particular argument,
which it does by getting the method handle cached in the ``Operations``
for the class of the argument.
Before it invokes that handle,
it makes it the target of the call site,
guarded by a test for the particular argument's class,
with the existing handle (``fallback``) as the alternative.
In this way, the site is able to make the same invocation call efficiently,
next time the same Java class is encountered.

As the site is invoked for different Java classes,
not need not be just the adopted implementations of a single type,
it will build a chain of guarded invocations,
equivalent to a chain of ``if (v instanceof C) { ... } else ...`` clauses
each guarding the proper implementation of the unary operation.

The chain could grow long,
although it will only contain the types actually encountered
in a particular location.
It is also a structure the JVM is able to inspect and optimise.

We do not have a compiler yet to generate code using ``invokedynamic``
in order to exercise this properly.
However, we can invoke it as a test like this:

..  code-block:: java

    class FloatCallSites {

        /** Test invocation of __neg__ call site on adopted classes. */
        @Test
        void site_op_neg() throws Throwable {

            Object dx = Double.valueOf(42.0);
            Object px = new PyFloat(42.0);

            UnaryOpCallSite cs = new UnaryOpCallSite(Slot.op_neg);
            MethodHandle invoker = cs.dynamicInvoker();

            // Link and invoke for PyFloat, Double
            for (Object x : List.of(px, dx)) {
                final Object res = invoker.invokeExact(x);
                assertEquals(-42.0, PyFloat.asDouble(res));
            }
        }
    }

This works for unary operations on ``float``.
Whether this is correct yet for all styles of object implementation
remains to be seen.


An Implication for Bootstrapping
--------------------------------

Note that if a Java class were to be encountered by the run-time
before its canonical counterpart could register it,
it would be treated as a "found" Java class,
and this would prevent it becoming an adopted implementation as intended.
Types with adopted implementations must initialise before this can happen,
and so we make them bootstrap types.
A list read from configuration is imaginable
as an alternative to hard-coding,
but it would have to be acted on early in the life of the type system.


A Binary Operation ``float.__sub__``
====================================

To be added.



``PyType`` and ``Operations`` for ``int`` and ``bool``
******************************************************

Let us repeat the exercise for ``int`` and ``bool``,
as there are some complications worth examining.
These complications result because, in Python,
``bool`` is a sub-class of ``int``,
and because we would like to identify Python ``True`` and ``False``
with Java ``Boolean.TRUE`` and ``Boolean.FALSE``.


The Unary Operation ``int.__neg__``
===================================

``PyLong`` is the canonical implementation of ``int``.
We also allow instances of ``Integer`` and ``BigInteger``
to represent instances of ``int``.
For each method, including the special methods,
we shall have to provide implementations applicable to
``Integer``, ``BigInteger`` and ``PyLong``.

For __neg__ we should expect to see:

..  code-block:: java

    class PyLongMethods {
        // ...
        static Object __neg__(Integer self) {
            return -self.intValue();
        }

        static Object __neg__(BigInteger self) {
            return self.negate();
        }

        static Object __neg__(PyLong self) {
            return self.value.negate();
        }

However, there is a complication surrounding ``bool``.
These are reasonable (and the same thing) in Python:

..  code-block:: python

    >>> -True
    -1
    >>> int.__neg__(True)
    -1

``True`` is acceptable as an argument to ``int.__neg__`` in Python
because ``bool`` is a sub-class of ``int``.
Java ``Boolean`` is not a sub-class of any adopted implementation,
and so no signature of ``__neg__`` is applicable to it.


Adopting ``bool``
------------------

The structure we propose to deal with this is as follows,
when realised for two kinds of integer `1` and boolean ``True``.
Although this involves a lot of objects,
it is very regular in structure.


..  uml::
    :caption: Instance model of ``int`` and ``bool`` finding ``op_neg``

    object "1 : PyLong" as x
    object "PyLong : Class" as PyLong.class

    object " : MethodHandle" as xneg {
        target = PyLongMethods.__neg__(PyLong)
    }

    object "int : PyType" as intType {
    }
    object " : Map" as intDict
    intType --> intDict : dict

    x --> PyLong.class
    PyLong.class --> intType : ops
    intType --> xneg : op_neg

    object "1 : Integer" as y
    object "Integer : Class" as Integer.class
    object " : Operations" as yOps

    object " : MethodHandle" as yneg {
        target = PyLongMethods.__neg__(Integer)
    }

    y --> Integer.class
    Integer.class --> yOps : ops
    yOps -right-> intType : type
    yOps --> yneg : op_neg

    object "bool : PyType" as boolType
    object " : Map" as boolDict
    boolType --> boolDict : dict

    object "True : Boolean" as z
    object "Boolean : Class" as Boolean.class
    object " : Operations" as zOps

    object " : MethodHandle" as zneg {
        target = PyLongMethods.__neg__(Boolean)
    }

    z --> Boolean.class
    Boolean.class --> zOps : ops
    zOps -left-> boolType : type
    zOps ---> zneg : op_neg

    object " : PyWrapperDescr" as neg {
        name = "__neg__"
    }

    intDict --> neg
    neg --> xneg
    neg --> yneg
    neg --> zneg
    intType <.left. boolType : <<Python sub-class>>
    boolType ...> neg : lookup("__neg__")


The point to note is that the same ``PyWrapperDescr`` object
is found by look-up on both ``int`` and ``bool``:
on ``int`` because it is defined there,
and on ``bool`` by inheritance along the MRO
Each Operations object caches the correct handle for its Java class,
because the defining type object indicates
which handle within the ``PyWrapperDescr`` to take.


The definition of ``PyLong`` looks like this:

..  code-block:: java

    class PyLong {


The definition of ``PyBool`` looks like this:

..  code-block:: java

    class PyBool {







Some Dots on the RADAR
======================

Here is a list of design problems looming already.
Some of these were already apparent for VSJ 2 at ``evo4``,
but since we can see them now,
we may design VSJ 3 with them in mind.

*   The type of attribute names were strongly typed to ``PyUnicode``
    in the VSJ 2 API to ``__getattribute__``, ``__setattr__``, etc.,
    obviating checks in the code.
    If we allow (prefer, even) ``String`` as ``str``,
    we still need ``PyUnicode`` as the canonical type
    (for above BMP strings and Python sub-classes of ``str``).
    So attribute access must now accept ``Object`` (at some level).
    We'd like this to be efficient in call sites
    where a Java ``String`` (UTF-16) may be guaranteed.
    Possibly make this the slot signature.
*   The keys of dictionaries must compare using ``__eq__`` and ``__hash__``
    even when the key is a plain Java object.
    We may not directly use a Java ``Map`` implementation
    directly as the Python implementation,
    except we wrap it in an object defining comparison and hashing.
    (This problem may be latent in VSJ 2.)
    We may avoid this for type dictionaries
    exploiting the string nature of attributes.
*   For types defined in Python,
    the Java class does not define the type,
    so the ``Operations`` slots will indirect
    via a type written on the instance,
    either to another ``Operations`` object specific to the type,
    or directly to the descriptor.
*   Descriptors that appear in the dictionary of the type
    must somehow be applicable to all implementations of that type,
    and therefore contain multiple handles,
    indexed by the implementation (by ``Operations``).
    In ``int.__neg__(42)`` we must invoke index 1.
    Descriptors are inherited by Python sub-classes to which these
    adopted implementations are largely irrelevant,
    since a sub-class Java extends only the canonical implementation.
*   When a type implemented in Java,
    and possessing adopted alternative implementations,
    inherits a ``PyWrapperDescr``,
    the method handle array ``wrapped`` in the inherited descriptor
    has entries that match the implementation types of the inherited class,
    and these may not match the accepted implementations of the receiver.
    How may the inherited special method be applied
    to a sub-class instance that of adopted class?
    This happens all the time for the special case of ``object``,
    where all implementations trivially extend ``Object``.
    Other examples are rare.
    If ``Boolean`` is an acceptable implementation of ``bool``,
    inherited ``int`` operations must be applicable to it.
    Should we conclude that each accep[table implementations of a sub-class
    must be a subclass of some implementation of it Python super-type?
