docs/src/site/sphinx/architecture/arch-plain-java-object.rst, before:

..  architecture/arch-plain-java-object.rst

.. _arch-plain-java-object:


Java ``Object`` as Python ``object``
####################################

Essential Idea
==============

The ``Operations`` object contains the information specific to a Java class,
that allows the run-time system
to treat an instance of the class as a Python object.
This includes identification of a Python type object for the instance.

..  uml::
    :caption: Plain Java ``Object`` Pattern

    class Object {
        getClass()
    }
    class Class { }
    Object -right-> Class

    interface PyObject {
        getType()
    }

    abstract class Crafted { }
    abstract class Other { }

    PyObject <|.right. Crafted
    Object <|--- Crafted
    Object <|-- Other

    abstract class Operations {
        {abstract} type(o)
    }
    Class -right-> Operations

    class PyType { }
    Operations <|-- PyType
    Crafted -right-> PyType : type

    class AcceptedOps { }
    Operations <|-- AcceptedOps
    AcceptedOps "*" -- "1" PyType


The classes ``Crafted`` and ``Other`` are not real classes
in the implementation.
Rather ``Crafted`` represents any object implementation that
explicitly designates a type object,
while ``Other`` represents any other object type.


Discussion
----------

Every ``Object`` has a ``Class``, of course,
which we do not normally show in class diagrams,
but it has an important explicit purpose here.
The relationship of a ``java.lang.Class`` to its ``Operations`` object
is implemented by a ``ClassValue``,
and so the path from an arbitrary object to its ``PyType``
is via ``Object.getClass()``.

In some cases the ``Operations`` object that we reach
is itself the ``PyType`` representing a Python type object.
In others, the Java class is one of several implementations of a type,
each needing their own instance of (a concrete sub-type of) ``Operations``,
only one of which can be the ``PyType``.
Or the Java class may implement many distinct Python types,
and in that case the ``Operations`` has to go via the instance,
which must be a ``PyObject``, to get the actual type.

Some responsibilities that seem naturally to belong to ``PyType``,
belong in fact to ``Operations``,
but ``PyType`` inherits them since it extends ``Operations``.



The broad classes of ``object``
-------------------------------

We shall have to support five broad categories of Java class
in relation to this model.
A Java class may be:

#.  the crafted canonical implementation of a Python type.
#.  an accepted implementation of some Python type.
#.  the crafted base of Python sub-classes of a Python type.
#.  a found Java type.
#.  the crafted base of Python sub-classes of a found Java type.

By *crafted* we mean that the class was written with the intention of
defining a Python type,
It will implement ``PyObject`` and designate its type explicitly.
It will have static data, annotations and use reserved method names,
that will be exposed as attributes.

By *accepted* we mean that although we had no opportunity to craft
the class as a ``PyObject``,
we accept it as an implementation of a Python type
(as ``java.lang.Integer`` is accepted as an implementation of ``int``).
The class will be bound to an ``AcceptedOps`` object,
which is not itself a ``PyType``.
From that we may reach the particular ``PyType`` it implements.

All other Java classes are *found* types,
to be exposed to Python according to Java conventions.
An ``Operations`` object, that is a ``PyType``,
will be created as each such type is encountered.

The "crafted base of Python sub-classes of a found Java type"
is a ``PyObject`` that results from extending a found type in Python.
This is the result of mentioning an imported Java class
amongst the bases in a Python class definition.
A Java class would have to be created dynamically,
if it is also to be a sub-class in Java.
This feature may be unavailable on some platforms.



Canonical Implementation
========================

In the simplest case,
there is only one implementation class for the Python type.

..  uml::
    :caption: ``bytes`` has a single implementation class

    object "b'\x01\x02\x03' : PyBytes" as x
    object "PyBytes : Class" as PyBytes.class
    object " : Operations" as bytesOps
    object "bytes : PyType" as bytesType

    x -up-> PyBytes.class
    PyBytes.class -right-> bytesOps : ops
    bytesOps -right-> bytesType : type




Mutable Type
------------

Derived and Variable Type
-------------------------


Accepted Implementation
=======================

Specification
-------------

Implications for ``PySlotWrapper``
----------------------------------




Found Java Type
===============

Commit message:

Experiments with class-specific binary operations
We try the idea of supplying and calling specific method signatures like
__add__(Double, PyFloat) as a way to make efficient call sites. Here is
an infrastructure intended to be general-purpose, but which so far only
works for limited examples of float.

In the course of this, we also clarify what we should mean by adopted,
accepted and operand Java classes, in relation to implementations, and
put in he infrastructure to support the concept. We can't test this
until we have more than one type.

docs/src/site/sphinx/architecture/arch-plain-java-object.rst, after:

..  architecture/arch-plain-java-object.rst

.. _arch-plain-java-object:


Java ``Object`` as Python ``object``
####################################

Essential Idea
==============

The ``Operations`` object contains the information specific to a Java class,
that allows the run-time system
to treat an instance of the class as a Python object.
This includes identification of a Python type object for the instance.

..  uml::
    :caption: Plain Java ``Object`` Pattern

    class Object {
        getClass()
    }
    class Class { }
    Object -right-> Class

    interface PyObject {
        getType()
    }

    abstract class Crafted { }
    abstract class Other { }

    PyObject <|.right. Crafted
    Object <|--- Crafted
    Object <|-- Other

    abstract class Operations {
        {abstract} type(o)
    }
    Class -right-> Operations

    class PyType { }
    Operations <|-- PyType
    Crafted -right-> PyType : type

    class AdoptedOps { }
    Operations <|-- AdoptedOps
    AdoptedOps "*" -- "1" PyType


The classes ``Crafted`` and ``Other`` are not real classes
in the implementation.
Rather ``Crafted`` represents any object implementation that
explicitly designates a type object,
while ``Other`` represents any other object type.


Discussion
----------

Every ``Object`` has a ``Class``, of course,
which we do not normally show in class diagrams,
but it has an important explicit purpose here.
The relationship of a ``java.lang.Class`` to its ``Operations`` object
is implemented by a ``ClassValue``,
and so the path from an arbitrary object to its ``PyType``
is via ``Object.getClass()``.

In some cases the ``Operations`` object that we reach
is itself the ``PyType`` representing a Python type object.
In others, the Java class is one of several implementations of a type,
each needing their own instance of (a concrete sub-type of) ``Operations``,
only one of which can be the ``PyType``.
Or the Java class may implement many distinct Python types,
and in that case the ``Operations`` has to go via the instance,
which must be a ``PyObject``, to get the actual type.

Some responsibilities that seem naturally to belong to ``PyType``,
belong in fact to ``Operations``,
but ``PyType`` inherits them since it extends ``Operations``.



The broad classes of ``object``
-------------------------------

We shall have to support five broad categories of Java class
in relation to this model.
A Java class may be:

#.  the crafted canonical implementation of a Python type.
#.  an adopted implementation of some Python type.
#.  the crafted base of Python sub-classes of a Python type.
#.  a found Java type.
#.  the crafted base of Python sub-classes of a found Java type.

By *crafted* we mean that the class was written with the intention of
defining a Python type,
It will implement ``PyObject`` and designate its type explicitly.
It will have static data, annotations and use reserved method names,
that will be exposed as attributes.

By *adopted* we mean that although we had no opportunity to craft
the class as a ``PyObject``,
we adopt it as an implementation of a Python type
(as ``java.lang.Integer`` is adopted as an implementation of ``int``).
The class will be bound to an ``AdoptedOps`` object,
which is not itself a ``PyType``.
From that we may reach the particular ``PyType`` it implements.

All other Java classes are *found* types,
to be exposed to Python according to Java conventions.
An ``Operations`` object, that is a ``PyType``,
will be created as each such type is encountered.

The "crafted base of Python sub-classes of a found Java type"
is a ``PyObject`` that results from extending a found type in Python.
This is the result of mentioning an imported Java class
amongst the bases in a Python class definition.
A Java class would have to be created dynamically,
if it is also to be a sub-class in Java.
This feature may be unavailable on some platforms.



Canonical Implementation
========================

In the simplest case,
there is only one implementation class for the Python type.

..  uml::
    :caption: ``bytes`` has a single implementation class

    object "b'\x01\x02\x03' : PyBytes" as x
    object "PyBytes : Class" as PyBytes.class
    object " : Operations" as bytesOps
    object "bytes : PyType" as bytesType

    x -up-> PyBytes.class
    PyBytes.class -right-> bytesOps : ops
    bytesOps -right-> bytesType : type




Mutable Type
------------

Derived and Variable Type
-------------------------


Adopted Implementation
======================

Specification
-------------

Implications for ``PySlotWrapper``
----------------------------------




Found Java Type
===============
